---
layout: post
title: JBrowse 1.11.0: hierarchical track selector, easier configuration, summary mode
date: 2013-12-19
tags: ["Software releases"]
---

JBrowse 1.11.0 is out today, with some major new features, and, as always, quite
a lot of smaller bugfixes and improvements.

But first, the download links:

- [JBrowse-1.11.0.zip](/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=87 'download JBrowse-1.11.0.zip') -
4.7M -
[installation quick-start tutorial](https://jbrowse.org/docs/tutorial_classic.html 'JBrowse Quick-Start')
<div>file SHA1 49fb7be687c5dff7857d080bf8503cddedea4e51</div>
- [JBrowse-1.11.0-dev.zip](http://jbrowse.org/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=88 'download JBrowse-1.11.0-dev.zip') -
26M
<div>file SHA1 daa4de81cb11f3d1f0406887a1fbc06efdd44fff</div>
Firstly, JBrowse has added** a third track selector type** alongside the existing Simple (small) and Faceted (large) track selectors **called Hierarchical**.  It looks like the old Simple track selector (which was the default), except it pays attention to the "category" key in a track's metadata, and if it is present, it organizes the tracks into nested, collapsible panes based on that.  Also, instead of the drag-and-drop paradigm used by the Simple track selector, the Hierarchical track selector turns tracks on and off by just checking and unchecking the box next to each track.  I think the checkboxes are probably easier for new users to understand, as well, the Hierarchical track selector is now enabled by default.  Those that prefer the old Simple selector can always turn it on by setting trackSelector.type to "Simple" in the jbrowse_conf.json file or the new jbrowse.conf file, which brings me to my next item.

Secondly, JBrowse now has a **additional text configuration format** that is
designed to be easier to hand edit, and can coexist and interoperate with
existing JSON configuration files. Users of GBrowse will find the syntax very
familiar, since its design borrows heavily from GBrowse's configuration syntax.
Here's a side-by-side comparison of what you would write in the old JSON and new
text configuration formats to make JBrowse use the old Simple track selector.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>jbrowse_conf.json</th>
<th>jbrowse.conf</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<pre>"trackSelector": {
  "type": "Simple"
}</pre>
</td>
<td>
<pre>[trackSelector]
type = Simple</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
It's easier to configure tracks in the new format, as well.  Here's a typical BAM Alignments2 track configuration in both formats, for comparison.
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>trackList.json</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<pre>"tracks": [
  {
    "storeClass"  : "JBrowse/Store/SeqFeature/BAM",
    "urlTemplate" : "../../raw/volvox/volvox-sorted.bam",
    "label"       : "volvox-sorted-bam",
    "type"        : "JBrowse/View/Track/Alignments2",
    "key"         : "My BAM track"
  }
]</pre>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>tracks.conf</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<pre>[tracks.volvox-sorted-bam]
storeClass  = JBrowse/Store/SeqFeature/BAM
urlTemplate = ../../raw/volvox/volvox-sorted.bam
type        = JBrowse/View/Track/Alignments2
key         = My BAM track</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
And for the final headline feature of this release, JBrowse CanvasFeatures, CanvasVariants, and Alignments2 tracks can now be configured to show** feature density histograms or coverage plots** when zoomed too far out to display individual features.  They can take this quantitative data from** any type of JBrowse data store** (including REST stores), but most users would want to use a BigWig store.    One caveat: this isn't a full-featured quantitative display like a Wiggle/XYPlot track, so quantitative values need to all be greater than 0, and all you can really change about how it looks is its color.  Here's an example in the new text configuration syntax of an Alignments2 track that will display either alignments from a BAM file or a coverage plot from a BigWig file, depending on zoom level.
<pre>[tracks.my-bam-with-coverage]

storeClass = JBrowse/Store/SeqFeature/BAM urlTemplate = my_alignments.bam

type = JBrowse/View/Track/Alignments2 key = My BAM track

histograms.storeClass = JBrowse/Store/SeqFeature/BigWig histograms.urlTemplate =
my_alignments.bam.coverage.bw histograms.description = coverage plot
histograms.color = #dcdcdc</pre> Of course, there are many smaller improvements
and bug fixes. Read on for the complete release notes.

# Release 1.11.0

## Major improvements

- Introduced density/coverage histogram support for CanvasFeatures,
  CanvasVariants, and Alignments2 tracks. These track types now support an
  optional `histograms` configuration subsection that can contain a definition
  for a second datastore that holds quantitative data (usually either coverage
  depth or feature density) to be displayed when zoomed further out than
  `featureScale` (or if `featureScale` is not set, the scale determined by the
  store's feature density divided by `maxFeatureScreenDensity`). Thanks to
  Richard Hayes for pushing hard for this feature.
- Added a new "Hierarchical" track selector that shows tracks in a hierarchy of
  collapsible categories, which is now the default track selector. To assign
  categories and subcategories to your tracks, set `category` or
  `metadata.category` attributes on each configured tracks in your
  `trackList.json`. Thanks to the many users who have requested this at one time
  or another.
- JBrowse now supports a new plaintext configuration format that users of
  GBrowse will find very familiar, since it is designed to be very similar to
  it. This syntax is also much easier to hand-write than JSON. The JSON
  configuration syntax is not going away, and will continue to be supported.

Thanks to Erik Derohanian for the original implementation of this configuration
adaptor, and Richard Hayes and Keiran Raine for motivating the work to polish
and more fully integrate it.

- Variables in configuration files can now be based on the contents of other
  variables. For example, setting

"myCustomVariable": "/some/custom/path", "include":
"{myCustomVariable}/conf.json"

will try to include a configuration file located at
"/some/custom/path/conf.json". Interpolation is done as the final step in
configuration loading, so variables can come from anywhere in the configuration.

- When JBrowse is started, if there are no reference sequences found in the
  default `dataRoot`, but the dataset selector is configured, JBrowse shows a
  simple list of links to available datasets instead of the "Congratulations,
  JBrowse is on the web" page. Thanks to Saulo Aflitos for the idea and its
  initial implementation.
- For users wishing to convert existing JSON configuration files to the new
  format, there is a new script, `bin/json2conf.pl`, that does a fair job. Run
  `bin/json2conf.pl -?` for details on how to use it.
- Added a new REST backend for name lookup and autocompletion. See
  http://gmod.org/wiki/JBrowse_Configuration_Guide#JBrowse_REST_Names_API for
  details. Thanks to Erik Derohanian for implementing this, and Ben Booth for
  suggesting an API design
  ([issue #267](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/267)).
- Major performance and scalability improvements for `generate-names.pl`. Now
  uses a different algorithm that is faster and more scalable than before, and
  no longer relies on BerkeleyDB for temporary storage. This should also
  alleviate the need to run generate-names.pl with `--safeMode` in Perl 5.10 and
  earlier. In fact, the `--safeMode argument` to generate-names.pl no longer has
  any effect. Thanks to Cris Lawrence for pointing out the continuing need for
  more scalability.

## Minor improvements

- Detail popups for CanvasVariants and HTMLVariants tracks now display the
  reference sequence itself instead of just "ref" in genotype displays. Thanks
  to Cris Lawrence for requesting this.
- Added a "save as FASTA" button to default feature detail popups that downloads
  a FASTA file with the displayed piece of reference sequence
  ([issue #299](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/299)).
- `chunkSizeLimit` for VCF files now defaults to 1 MiB. It used to be 15 MiB,
  which was really far too big for browsers to handle.
- Added support for a `--nameAttributes` argument to `flatfile-to-json.pl` that
  takes a comma-separated list of feature attributes to index for name searching
  and completions, or 'none' to not make names searchable.
- Added support for a `nameAttributes` variable in `biodb-to-json.pl` track
  configurations that can be set to an array of feature attribute names to to
  index for name searching and completions, or 'none' to not make names
  searchable.
- Add a `--category` argument to bin/wig-to-json.pl that can be used to set the
  `metadata.category` of a track.

## Bug fixes

- Fixed a bug in NCList data backed in which feature histograms were often
  calculated very incorrectly.
- Fixed a bug in the VCF data backend that caused not all VCF features to be
  shown in some files at some zoom levels.
