---
layout: post
title: JBrowse 1.10.5 maintenance release
date: 2013-10-03
tags: ['Software releases']
---

JBrowse 1.10.5 has been released, with some important bug fixes and more
performance improvements for data formatting scripts.

Files for download:

- [JBrowse-1.10.5.zip](/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=71 'download JBrowse-1.10.5.zip') -
  4.6M file SHA1 17a07058a98900d2cff5d1db441ab3d2b5a425a1
- [JBrowse-1.10.5-dev.zip](http://jbrowse.org/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=72 'download JBrowse-1.10.5-dev.zip') -
  26M file SHA1 c060c487fcd361cc4b41075696cef6cfc005f150

## Minor improvements

- Greatly improved the speed and reduced the memory footprint when running
  `prepare-refseqs.pl` with the --fasta and --gff options.

- Added an `impliedUTRs` option to the ProcessedTranscript and Gene glyphs for
  CanvasFeatures tracks. Thanks to Ben Booth for pointing out the need for this
  ([issue #348](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/348)).

- Upgraded flatfile-to-json.pl to use a new version of
  Bio::GFF3::LowLevel::Parser for GFF3 parser, which has a lookback buffer limit
  that makes it easier to parse large GFF3 files that do not contain enough
  '###' directives.

- Further improved the memory footprint and speed of generate-names.pl. Thanks
  to Richard Hayes for his continued help with testing improvements and
  reporting problems.

- Removed explicit dependency on GD::Image, which is only used by the old
  tiled-image generation demo code. This will make dependency installation
  easier for many people, at a (very) small cost to backward compatibility.

## Bug fixes

- Fixed a bad bug that prevented combination tracks from working. Thanks to
  Harry Yoo for pointing this out
  ([issue #351](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/351)).

- Fixed a bug in which one of the temporary files used by generate-names.pl was
  not being created in the correct location. Thanks to Richard Hayes for testing
  this.

- Fixed a bug in which `generate-names.pl` could sometimes crash when run with
  the -v (verbose) switch, or in setup.sh.

- Fixed odd behavior when entering coordinate ranges in the location box under
  Safari. Thanks to Keiran Raine for pointing this out
  ([issue #341](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/341)).
