---
layout: post
title: JBrowse 1.10.9 maintenance release
date: 2013-11-08
tags: ['Software releases']
---

JBrowse 1.10.9 has been released, with new incremental-updating support in
`generate-names.pl`, along with some other bug fixes and small improvements.

Files for download:

- [JBrowse-1.10.9.zip](/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=79 'download JBrowse-1.10.9.zip') -
  4.6M file SHA1 e05f599c8692489e7c184cfd6c340afc79519a38
- [JBrowse-1.10.9-dev.zip](http://jbrowse.org/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=80 'download JBrowse-1.10.9-dev.zip') -
  26M file SHA1 e74d9b8ab21aa31e9ce09ff996ec45916b934821

## Minor improvements

- `generate-names.pl` now supports a `--incremental` or `-i` option that adds
  names to an existing index. Thanks to Richard Hayes for reminding me that this
  wasn't done yet ([issue #373](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/373)).

- Added a lower-performance, but more backward-compatible indexing backend to
  generate-names.pl that can be activated by passing the `--safeMode`
  command-line argument. The recent performance improvements to
  generate-names.pl have apparently tickled some bugs that are present in some
  installations. Thanks to Josie Reinhardt and GitHub user raj76 for their
  continued help troubleshooting this. If you find that name indexing is not
  working correctly, try running it again with `--safeMode`, and report to the
  mailing list if it helps.

- Added support for using the JBrowse in-memory GFF3 adaptor to display
  web-accessible GFF3 files directly. See
  docs/tutorial/data_files/volvox.gff3.conf for an example configuration. Thanks
  to David Goodstein and Richard Hayes for motivating this.

## Bug fixes

- `flatfile-to-json.pl` now depends on the latest Bio::GFF3::LowLevel::Parser
  1.8, which fixes a bug in which features with no ID, Parent, or Derives_from
  attributes were not being included in parsed data. Thanks to Gwendoline Andres
  for pointing this out.

- Tweak BioPerl-handling code in biodb-to-json.pl to hopefully work better with
  BioSQL backends. Thanks to Brian Osborne for pointing this out.
