---
layout: post
title: JBrowse 1.10.12 maintenance release (please upgrade!)
date: 2013-12-10
tags: ['Development', 'Software releases']
---

JBrowse 1.10.12 has been released, and **we are asking all users of JBrowse
<del>1.10.7</del> 1.10.10 and higher to please upgrade to this release as soon
as possible**.

The story behind this is a bit embarassing: I discovered today that JBrowse
releases <del>1.10.7 through</del> 1.10.10 and 1.10.11 shipped with usage
analytics reporting disabled. This is a little piece of code that tracks how
many installations and users of JBrowse there are, and the data it provides is
absolutely crucial for the JBrowse project, because we use it to try to convince
funding agencies that JBrowse is a project worth funding.

So, yes ... this release has analytics reporting re-enabled. There are also a
few other minor improvements and bug fixes. Please upgrade to this ASAP if you
are using JBrowse <del>1.10.7, 1.10.8, 1.10.9,</del> 1.10.10 or 1.10.11, because
we really need that analytics data.

**Edit (Dec 11): **realized just now that only 1.10.10 and 1.10.11 were
affected. Forgot to account for branching and merging last night.

Files for download:

- [JBrowse-1.10.12.zip](/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=85 'download JBrowse-1.10.12.zip') -
  4.6M file SHA1 6a73716eea1df063beec0bb0a03402e92e027317
- [JBrowse-1.10.12-dev.zip](http://jbrowse.org/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=86 'download JBrowse-1.10.12-dev.zip') -
  26M file SHA1 1cd196de451ac246ab26c8b36bd4babaa9ffc842

## Minor improvements

- `bam-to-json.pl` and `flatfile-to-json.pl` now support a `--metadata` argument
  that can add a `metadata` stanza to track configurations they generate.
- Multi-valued attributes in default feature detail popups are displayed as a
  string of boxes, each containing a value, to avoid misinterpretation. Thanks
  to Cris Lawrence for pointing out the need for this.

## Bug fixes

- Re-enabled usage analytics reporting, which had been disabled by a stray piece
  of debugging code since the 1.10.7 release.
- Fixed a bug in which the tooltip in canvas-based feature tracks would
  sometimes display incorrect label or description text.
