---
layout: post
title: JBrowse 1.10.4 maintenance release
date: 2013-09-23
tags: ['Software releases']
---

JBrowse 1.10.4 has been released, with a new simple sequence-search track tool,
large performance improvements for `generate-names.pl`, and some new filtering
options for VCF-based variant tracks.

Files for download:

- [JBrowse-1.10.4.zip](/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=69 'download JBrowse-1.10.4.zip') -
  4.6M file SHA1 0cfc8106e0b89fcc937701be74830c30b9f894cc
- [JBrowse-1.10.4-dev.zip](http://jbrowse.org/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=70 'download JBrowse-1.10.4-dev.zip') -
  26M file SHA1 9b4d7aa9c6cb702853e3080fd7dedfae32a095ca

## Minor improvements

- Rewrote many parts of generate-names.pl, making heavy use of temporary
  BerkeleyDB stores (using Perl's DB_File module). This improves
  generate-names.pl performance by more than 10x.
- Added a File->Add sequence search track menu item that can make tracks that
  show which regions of the reference sequence contain a given (small) sequence,
  or match a given regular expression. Thanks to Daniel Kasenberg for the
  initial implementation of this (issue #315).
- Added a CanvasVariants track type, similar to HTMLVariants, which utilizes the
  faster CanvasFeatures rendering backend for displaying variant data.
- Added checkboxes to HTMLVariants and CanvasVariants track menus that allow
  filtering displayed features based on the FILTER attribute in a VCF file. In
  addition to filtering based on the presence or absence of PASS, users can
  filter based on the custom filters defined in the VCF header. Thanks to Keiran
  Raine and Andrew Uzilov for suggesting this (issue #344).
- Added "Hide forward strand" and "Hide reverse strand" checkboxes to Alignments
  and Alignments2 track menus that allow alignments on the forward and/or
  reverse strands to be hidden.

## Bug fixes

- Fixed a bug that prevented indexing of feature aliases in the names index when
  running generate-names.pl.
- Fixed a bug that prevented proper display of the "ibeam" feature class in
  HTMLFeatures tracks. Thanks to Ed Lee for pointing this out.
