---
layout: post
title: JBrowse 1.10.3 maintenance release
date: 2013-09-04
tags: ['Software releases']
---

JBrowse 1.10.3 has been released, with a lot of small enhancements and important
bugfixes.

Files for download:

- [JBrowse-1.10.3.zip](/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=67 'download JBrowse-1.10.3.zip') -
  4.8M file SHA1 3be482df63ce10a9211483bc760d3b4137a2e77f
- [JBrowse-1.10.3-dev.zip](http://jbrowse.org/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=68 'download JBrowse-1.10.3-dev.zip') -
  26M file SHA1 825093524bbf09f0f724f80332342b99f8e50734
  <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 1.8em; line-height: 1.5em;">Minor
  improvements</span>

- Added options to Alignments, Alignments2, and SNPCoverage tracks to allow
  hiding reads that are duplicates, fail vendor QC, have missing mate pairs, are
  secondary alignments, and/or are supplementary alignments. Thanks to Kieran
  Raine and Andrew Uzilov for pointing out the need for this, and for their
  input on its design (issue #332).
- Added support for a `variables` configuration for SPARQL data stores that can
  be used to specify additional variables for interpolating into a SPARQL query.
  Thanks to Toshiaki Katayama for suggesting this.
- Added the ability for Sequence tracks to display a 6- or 3-frame translation
  of the reference sequence. Thanks to Daniel Kasenberg for implementing this
  (issue #221).
- Added checkboxes in the track menu of Sequence tracks that allow users to
  toggle the display of the forward strand, reverse strand, and 6-frame
  translation.
- Added support for an `addStores` variable in the query string of the URL used
  to start JBrowse. This variable accepts store configurations (which are a way
  to specify data sources separately from track configurations, so multiple
  tracks can use the same data source) in JSON format. For example, to add a
  store called "urlbam" that points to a BAM file, you could use the
  JSON:`{ "urlbam": { "type": "JBrowse/Store/SeqFeature/BAM", "urlTemplate": "/path/to/my/bamfile.bam" }}`

which, when URI-escaped and put in the query string, looks like:

`addStores=%7B%20%22urlbam%22%3A%20%7B%20%22type%22%3A%20%22JBrowse%2FStore%2FSeqFeature%2FBAM%22%2C%20%22urlTemplate%22%3A%20%22%2Fpath%2Fto%2Fmy%2Fbamfile.bam%22%20%7D%7D`

- Slightly improved performance of generate-names.pl in cases where
  --completionLimit is zero. Also improved the POD documentation of the
  --completionLimit parameter for generate-names.pl. Thanks to Richard Hayes for
  his continued patience.

## Bug fixes

- Fixed some bugs that prevented proper display of BigWig files larger than 4GB.
  Thanks to Keiran Raine for pointing this out.
- Fixed a major performance bug that unnecessarily slowed down display of large
  BigWig files with Wiggle tracks when `autoscale` is set to "local".
- Fixed a bug that prevented display of BAM reads that had MD tags but no
  associated CIGAR string. Thanks to Keiran Raine for point this out (issue
  #330).
- Fixed a bug in which FixedImage tracks (e.g. legacy image-based Wiggle tracks)
  never take down the "Loading" message when displaying on a reference sequence
  for which no image data has been provided.
- Fixed a bug that prevented rendering of mismatches, insertions, and deletions
  in a BAM read that occurred after a skip. Thanks to Gregg Helt for noticing
  this and fixing it (issue #325).
- Fixed a bug in which the SNP frequencies calculated by SNPCoverage tracks were
  sometimes incorrect. Thanks to Matthew Conte for pointing this out (issue
  #335).
- Fixed a bug in which reference sequences with a start coordinate other than
  zero would cause the overview scale track to not be drawn correctly. Thanks to
  Gregg Helt for noticing this and working on an initial fix (issue #324).
- Fixed a bug in which the most recent location visited on a given reference
  sequence was not properly being restored from the saved cookie. Thanks to
  Gregg Helt for the initial fix for this (issue #321).
- Fixed a bug in which event handlers and blocks in CanvasFeatures tracks were
  not being properly cleaned up. The most prominent visible consequences of this
  were duplicate dialog boxes being opened when clicking on a canvas feature.
  Thanks to Keiran Raine for noticing this and making sure it was fixed (issue
  #329).
- Fixed a bug with flatfile-to-json.pl parsing of GenBank locations. Thanks to
  Steve Marshall for pointing this out (issue #323).
- Fixed a bug in which SNPCoverage tracks would not always properly display
  error messages when something goes wrong, particularly under IE 9.
