---
layout: post
title: JBrowse 1.10.0: Combination tracks, better feature tracks, more glyphs, SPARQL support, and track pinning!
date: 2013-07-30
tags: ["Software releases"]
---

After a long, hard development push, JBrowse 1.10.0 is out today! There are
several major improvements in this release, and a **huge** number of smaller
improvements and bugfixes.

### Download links

- [JBrowse-1.10.0.zip](/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=61 'download JBrowse-1.10.0.zip') -
5.2M - Includes everything you need to display your data on the web with
JBrowse, optimized for fast loading speed.
<div>SHA1 file checksum: 8dddbcbc54d5be967b1d381cb6ad8ace671536e7</div>
- [JBrowse-1.10.0-dev.zip](http://jbrowse.org/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=62 'download JBrowse-1.10.0-dev.zip') -
26M - Primarily for developers. Includes additional developer documentation,
developer test suites, and full copies of Dojo, Dijit, and DojoX.
<div>SHA1 file checksum: 8856e1301d90df93ba4a644bccc48c3b4d6dc07c</div>

## Major new features

- Added powerful **combination tracks**, which can combine data from multiple
  other tracks using **range, arithmetic, or masking** ** operations**. For
  example, a BigWig track can be masked to highlight only regions that lie
  within features from a BAM track. Or the intersection of two or more feature
  tracks can be calculated. To create a combination track, select "File->Add
  combination track" from the menu bar, and then add tracks to the new
  combination track by dragging them into it. A huge thanks to OICR co-op
  students Julien Smith-Roberge and Daniel Kasenberg for implementing this
  powerful feature. It's a very significant accomplishment!
- Added** "normal", "compact", and "collapsed" feature layout options** for
  canvas-based feature tracks (currently just Alignments2 tracks). Thanks to
  OICR co-op student Daniel Kasenberg for implementing this!
- Greatly improved the** `JBrowse/View/Track/CanvasFeatures` track** ** type, to
  the point where it is probably ready for experienced** ** JBrowse users to
  use** in earnest. It renders features using a modular glyph system that
  GBrowse users will find very familiar. To give it a try, simply change the
  `type` key in an existing track configuration to
  "JBrowse/View/Track/CanvasFeatures" and add a `glyph` key to set which glyph
  to use. Glyphs that are currently implemented are:

      *   Box - draws a box, optionally with an arrow indicating strandedness.
      *   Segments - draws a series of boxes connected with a line, for

  features with subparts. _ ProcessedTranscript - draws CDS and UTR features,
  with UTRs a different color and thinner. _ Gene - draws a group of aligned
  ProcessedTranscript glyphs for mRNAs that are subfeatures of a top-level gene
  feature. Each of these glyphs have been patterned as near-clones of the (very
  popular) analogous glyphs in GBrowse.

- Added a **SPARQL data backend** to allow displaying features directly from a
  SPARQL endpoint. Many thanks to the NDBC/DBCLS BioHackathon 2012 and 2013
  participants for suggesting this and helping with this work! See
  [http://www.biohackathon.org](http://www.biohackathon.org) for more on this
  fantastic (and I think very important) series of hackathons.
- There is a new "Highlight" button next to the "Go" button that lets a user
  quickly and easily highlight a region with the mouse.
- Added the ability to** "pin" some tracks to the top of the display**,
- so that they stay at the top of the pane while the rest of the tracks are
  scrolled vertically. Thanks to the WebApollo project for suggesting this.
- Integrated a** `maker2jbrowse` script** into the core JBrowse distribution.
  You can now visualize your MAKER results in JBrowse with a single command:
  `bin/maker2jbrowse -d /path/to/your/maker/master_datastore_index.log` Thanks
  to the MAKER team and Yandell lab for providing the initial implementation of
  `maker2jbrowse`.

## Minor improvements

- Added support for an `addFeatures` variable in the query string of the URL
  used to start JBrowse. This variable accepts feature data in JSON format in
  the
  form:`[{ "seq_id":"ctgA", "start": 123, "end": 456, "name": "MyBLASTHit"},...}]`which,
  when URI-escaped and put in the query string, looks
  like:`addFeatures=%5B%7B%20%22seq_id%22%3A%22ctgA%22%2C%20%22start%22%3A%20123%2C%20%22end%22%3A%20456%2C%20%22name%22%3A%20%22MyBLASTHit%22%7D%5D`Developers
  integrating JBrowse into larger project may find this feature useful for
  displaying results from other non-JavaScript-based applications (such as
  legacy web BLAST tools) in JBrowse.Features added to JBrowse in this way are
  available in a special data store named `url`, which can be specified in a
  track configuration by adding `"store":"url"`.
- Added support for an `addTracks` variable in the query string of the URL used
  to start JBrowse. This variable accepts track configurations in JSON format in
  the
  form:`[{"label":"mytrack","store":"url","type":"JBrowse/View/Track/HTMLFeatures"},...]`which,
  when URI-escaped and put in the query string, looks
  like:`addTracks=%5B%7B%22label%22%3A%22mytrack%22%2C%22store%22%3A%22url%22%2C%22type%22%3A%22JBrowse%2FView%2FTrack%2FHTMLFeatures%22%7D%5D`
- Added "Save track data" option to Alignments2 tracks. This option should have
  been there all along, but somehow slipped through the cracks. Thanks to
  Valerie Wong for pointing this out at the 2013 GMOD Summer School!
- Statistics about a track's features are now shown in its "About this track"
  dialog, if available.
- Added support for a --reftypes argument to `prepare-refseqs.pl`, allowing you
  to search a database for reference sequences based on the type of the
  reference sequences, e.g. 'chromosome'. Thanks to Gaelen Burke at the 2013
  GMOD Summer School for pointing out the need for this, and for assistance in
  testing the new feature.
- Added a `--gbk` option to `flatfile-to-json.pl` that accepts a GenBank-format
  text file as input for loading annotation data. Thanks to Justin Reese for the
  initial implementation of this.
- When formatting features with `flatfile-to-json.pl`, multi-valued feature
  attributes are now only flattened (renamed foo, foo2, foo3, etc) for "name",
  "id", "start", "end", "score", "strand", "description", and "note" attributes.
  Formerly, all attributes were flattened. This improves the default display of
  features that have many values for some attributes, such as Dbxrefs or GO
  terms.
- Further improved scrolling smoothness of HTML-based feature tracks.
- `flatfile-to-json.pl` now supports a `--trackType` option that can be used to
  set the JavaScript track class that will be used for the formatted data (e.g.
  "JBrowse/View/Track/CanvasFeatures" to use the new, improved HTML5
  canvas-based feature tracks).
- `biodb-to-json.pl` configuration files now support a `trackType` configuration
  key in each track configuration that can be used to set the JavaScript track
  class that will be used for the formatted data (e.g.
  "JBrowse/View/Track/CanvasFeatures" to use the new, improved HTML5
  canvas-based feature tracks).
- `prepare-refseqs.pl` can now format reference sequences from a common .sizes
  (aka .len) file that is just a two-column tab-separated list of reference
  sequence names and their lengths, run like: bin/prepare-refseqs.pl --sizes
  myrefs.sizes
- `prepare-refseqs.pl` can now format reference sequences from a gzipped GFF3 if
  the file's name ends with the suffix ".gz".
- Added a '--noSubfeatures' option for flatfile-to-json.pl to skip importing
  subfeatures (since `--getSubfeatures` is on by default for some time).
- The `style.label` configuration variable in HTMLFeatures (and CanvasFeatures)
  tracks can now accept a comma-separated string of field names in addition to a
  function callback. Defaults to 'name,id';
- The "Save track data" (data exporting) menu now has "Highlighted region" as
  one of the choices of which range to export, if there is something
  highlighted.
- The "JBrowse" link on the left side of the menu bar, and the browser title,
  now display the "About this browser" title instead of JBrowse, if
  `aboutThisBrowser` is set in the configuration. Thanks to Joanna Kelley at the
  2013 GMOD Summer School for suggesting this.
- Tweaked styling of inactive track handles in the default Simple track selector
  to make them look less like pressable buttons. Thanks to Pedro Pagan at the
  2013 GMOD Summer School for pointing out the need for this, and helping to
  brainstorm how the new styles should look.
- Horizontal mouse-wheel (or trackpad) events can now scroll the genome view
  horizontally. Thanks to Mara Kim for help testing this at the 2013 GMOD Summer
  School.
- The "content" of configurable information popups (such as can be shown when
  clicking on features) can now accept a dojo/Deferred or other promise object
  that will provide the content to be shown asynchronously.
- Added a `JBrowse/Store/SeqFeature/FromConfig` feature store adapter that can
  display feature data that is specified directly in configuration. This is
  mostly used to implement the support for `addFeatures` in the JBrowse URL, but
  some administrators and developers may find it conventient as well to define
  feature data directly in the JBrowse configuration.
- Added a `track.maxFeatureSizeForUnderlyingRefSeq` configuration variable,
  defaulting to 250 Kbp, that sets the maximum length of a feature for which the
  default feature detail popup will attempt to display the underlying reference
  sequence. Thanks to Colin Davenport for pointing out the need for this (issue
  #291).
- Added the ability to specify the file name when exporting track data to a
  file. Thanks to Daniel Kasenberg for implementing this.
- Added a `track.noExportFiles` configuration variable that, if set to true,
  disables exporting files from the "Save" menu of tracks.

## Bug fixes

- Fixed a bug that prevented clicking on features in Alignments2 (and other
  canvas feature tracks) in Internet Explorer.
- Fixed a bad design decision with respect to track metadata stores. Before, a
  given metadata key ("Category", "Conditions", etc) was allowed to only be
  present in one source of track metadata (CSV file, configuration file, etc).
  The original thinking behind this was that it would be better for people to be
  forced to keep each kind of metadata in only one place. This was silly
  thinking. Thanks to the 2013 GMOD Summer School participants for helping me to
  see the error of my ways.
- Fixed a bug in which turning off the HTMLFeatures track's "Show Labels" did
  not remove labels for features with descriptions.
- Fixed a bug with `prepare-refseqs.pl` in which, when multiple definitions of a
  reference sequence are found (as in a GFF3 file with both ##sequence-region
  directives and a FASTA section), the seqChunkSize value is not recorded in
  refSeqs.json and the sequence bases cannot be displayed in the "Reference
  sequence" track.
- Fixed a synchronization bug in NCList-based feature data stores that causes
  some features to be missing when displaying with a CanvasFeatures track. This
  bug may also have affected 'Save track data' (data export) in some situations.
- Fixed a bug with GFF3 export in which the phase(!) column was missing. Thanks
  to Michael Campbell at the 2013 GMOD Summer School for helping track this
  down!
- Fixed another bug with GFF3 export in which an extra comma would sometimes be
  added at the beginning of GFF3 lines for some child features.
- Fixed a bug in which the global highlighted region was not correctly drawn
  when switching reference sequences.
- Fixed a minor bug in which the REST store backend did not coerce start, end,
  strand, and score to be numeric if the input JSON had them as strings.
