---
layout: post
title: JBrowse 1.10.10 maintenance release
date: 2013-11-21
tags: ['Software releases']
---

JBrowse 1.10.10 has been released, with new compression support in
`generate-names.pl`, configurable inter-track spacing, and quite a few bug
fixes.

<div style="padding: 2em 1em; margin: 1em; border: 1px solid #eee; background: #fcfcfc">(Download disabled.  Please download the[ 1.10.12 release](http://jbrowse.org/jbrowse-1-10-12/ "JBrowse 1.10.12 maintenance release") or later instead.)
</div>

## Minor improvements

- Spacing between tracks is now configurable by setting `view.trackPadding` in
  the configuration. Thanks to Chenchen Zhu for suggesting this
  ([issue #377](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/377)).

- If reference sequences are defined, but no tracks are yet added, JBrowse will
  start normally instead of going to the "Congratulations, JBrowse is on the
  web" page.

- `generate-names.pl` now supports a `--compress` option that compresses the
  name index files to save server disk space. Thanks to Richard Hayes for
  pointing out the need for this
  ([issue #378](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/378)).

## Bug fixes

- `generate-names.pl` now uses IO::Uncompress::Gunzip instead of PerlIO::gzip to
  read compressed VCF files. This fixes a bug in which only the first few
  hundred names in a VCF were indexed. Thanks to Cris Lawrence for pointing this
  out ([issue #380](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/380)).

- Fixed a bug in which `generate-names.pl` would crash if run with
  `--incremental` and no existing names index. Thanks to Richard Hayes for
  pointing this out ([issue #379](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/379)).

- Fixed a bug in which `generate-names.pl` would sometimes choose the wrong
  number of hash bits when performing incremental updates, leading to the old
  data being lost. Thanks to Richard Hayes for lots of help troubleshooting
  this.

- Fixed bug where other tracks are visible underneath pinned tracks when the
  display is scrolled down. Thanks to Ed Lee for pointing this out.

- Fixed a bug in which tooltip does not hide after the mouse leaves a Wiggle
  track in Safari 5 and 6. Thanks to Charles Girardot for pointing this out.

- Fixed a bug in which the `main.css` file for plugins was not being correctly
  loaded in some installations. Thanks to Matt Bomhoff for pointing this out.
