---
layout: post
title: JBrowse 1.10.11 maintenance release
date: 2013-12-03
tags: ['Software releases']
---

JBrowse 1.10.11 has been released, with many bug fixes and better support for
spliced alignments in SNPCoverage tracks.

<div style="padding: 2em 1em; margin: 1em; border: 1px solid #eee; background: #fcfcfc">(Download disabled.  Please download the[ 1.10.12 release](http://jbrowse.org/jbrowse-1-10-12/ "JBrowse 1.10.12 maintenance release") or later instead.)
</div>

## Minor improvements

- Made the sequence track's "zoom in to see sequence" placeholder take up less
  vertical space. Thanks to Scott Cain for pointing out that making it be the
  same height as it will eventually be when zoomed in to base level is silly.

- By default highlighting features after searching for them by name is now
  turned off. Set the `highlightSearchedRegions` top-level conf variable to
  `true` to turn this back on. Turns out, most people seem not to like this
  behavior. Thanks to Gregg Helt and Cris Lawrence for pointing this out.

- `SNPCoverage` tracks now correctly display "skipped" regions in alignments,
  such as those produced by TopHat. Thanks to Josh Orvis, Gustavo Cerquiera, and
  others for reminders that this was still an issue.

- `SNPCoverage` tracks now provide per-strand counts of "reference" reads at
  each position, like they already were providing for reads with mismatches.

- `SNPCoverage` tracks now accept a `mismatchScale` configuration variable that
  sets the viewing scale (i.e. zoom level, pixels per bp) above which base-level
  mismatches will be drawn. Defaults to 1/10. Making this value larger can speed
  up SNPCoverage tracks for high-coverage data at the cost of needing to zoom in
  further to see mismatches.

- setup.sh now uses `curl` for downloading things instead of `wget`, since
  `curl` is more widely available. Thanks to Keiran Raine for suggesting and
  implementing this ([issue #393](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/393)).

## Bug fixes

- Fixed a bug in which `generate-names.pl` would sometimes report the incorrect
  number of hashing bits in verbose output, and would sometimes use the number
  of hashing bits for an existing index even if that index was being
  regenerated. Thanks to Richard Hayes for pointing out the incorrect log
  output.

- Fix `generate-names.pl` crashing on some older versions of Perl with an error
  like `Bareword "POSIX::O_RDONLY" not allowed while "strict subs" in use`.
  Thanks to Chris Childers for pointing this out.

- Fix `setup.sh` failing on some older versions of Perl. It now runs
  `generate-names.pl` with the `--safeMode` flag.

- Fixed a bug where the value display in SNPCoverage tracks would sometimes
  report "NaN%" for the reference when no reads cover a region.

- Fixed a bug in which activating rubberband zooming using the SHIFT key while
  in highlighting mode would cause all the tracks to be dragged when attempting
  to highlight a region afterward. Thanks to Erik Derohanian for pointing out
  and fixing this ([issue #387](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/387)).

- Fixed the location of the dojo/nls directory in release zipfiles. Was
  erroneously in src/nls, supposed to be src/dojo/nls. Thanks to Matt Bomhoff
  for pointing this out.

- The in-memory GFF3 parser now copes with a missing newline at the end of a
  GFF3 file. Previously, the last line was ignored if it did not end with a
  newline character. Thanks to Colin Davenport for pointing this out
  ([issue #394](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/394)).
