---
layout: post
title: JBrowse 1.10.7 maintenance release
date: 2013-10-15
tags: ['Software releases']
---

JBrowse 1.10.7 has been released, with some important bug fixes and added
support for displaying feature density histograms from REST stores.

Files for download:

- [JBrowse-1.10.7.zip](/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=75 'download JBrowse-1.10.7.zip') -
  4.6M file SHA1 105e24540994b9018191cb3b5103fb62dc285c67
- [JBrowse-1.10.7-dev.zip](http://jbrowse.org/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=76 'download JBrowse-1.10.7-dev.zip') -
  26M file SHA1 29d6cd66275536dade330d4016b74c419f704a9a

## Minor improvements

- Added an optional `stats/regionFeatureDensities` endpoint to the REST API that
  makes it possible to provide binned feature counts that HTMLFeatures tracks
  can use to display feature histograms. Thanks to Stuart Watt and Daniel
  Troesser for pointing out the need for this
  ([issue #365](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/365)).

## Bug fixes

- Fixed a bad bug introduced in 1.10.6 in which FASTA files with line lengths
  longer than the configured chunk size were not correctly formatted. Thanks to
  Jean-Jack Riethoven for pointing this out
  ([issue #363](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/363)).

- Fixed a bug introduced in 1.10.6 in which prepare-refseqs.pl would not respect
  the --noseq command-line option when using --fasta.

- Fixed bug in which `name` or `seq_id` attributes are required for reference
  sequence features. Thanks to Daniel Troesser for pointing this out.

- Fixed a bug that may have prevented some types of VCF files from being
  displayed (error message referring to `inheritedFilters`).

- Fixed a bug in which "Zoom in to see feature" in Sequence tracks would wrap
  downwards below track at some zoom levels and window widths.

- Fixed an off-by-one error in UTR attributes manufactured by the `impliedUTRs`
  mechanism of the ProcessedTranscript glyph. Thanks to Ben Booth for pointing
  this out ([issue #362](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/362)).

- Fixed a bug in which `score` attributes of features were not being recorded by
  `biodb-to-json.pl`. Thanks to HongKee Moon for pointing this out
  ([issue #364](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/364)).

- Removed a stray use of Carp::Always in GFF3-processing Perl code that may have
  caused problems in some installations.
