---
layout: post
title: JBrowse 1.11.1 maintenance release
date: 2014-01-07
tags: ['Software releases']
---

JBrowse 1.11.1 has been released, with a number of bug fixes and some nice
improvements to Alignments2 tracks. Most of the Alignments2 improvements were
thought up by Keiran Raine at Sanger, thanks Keiran! Thanks also to Cris
Lawrence and Richard Hayes, who were helpful in finding some other bugs and
opportunities for improvements.

Files for download:

- [JBrowse-1.11.1.zip](/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=89 'download JBrowse-1.11.1.zip') -
  4.7M file SHA1 9ae684b90fa033b76072f9fdad91bdb6a1d8180a
- [JBrowse-1.11.1-dev.zip](http://jbrowse.org/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=90 'download JBrowse-1.11.1-dev.zip') -
  26M file SHA1 23b6d80b92ac9259994287a7c307860b184a21f5

## Minor improvements

- Alignments2 tracks now include right-click menu items to view the location of
  an alignment's mate pair or next segment in a popup or a new tab. Thanks to
  Keiran Raine for suggesting this
  ([issue #406](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/406)).

- Alignments2 tracks now draw gaps and deletions in reads regardless of zoom
  level, as long as the alignment is at least 3 pixels wide in the display.
  Thanks to Keiran Raine for pointing out the need for this
  ([issue #403](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/403)).

- Added support for a `histograms.max` variable for CanvasFeatures-based tracks
  that can be used to manually set the max value of a histogram display. Thanks
  to Keiran Raine for pointing out the need for this.

- Added support for drawing clip markers (with their color set by
  `histograms.clip_marker_color`) in CanvasFeatures-based tracks. Thanks to
  Keiran Raine for pointing out the need for this
  ([issue #402](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/402)).

- Canvas-based feature tracks now try to draw histograms, if available, when the
  data backend throws a data-overflow error (like when the BAM backend exceeds
  the chunkSizeLimit). Thanks to Keiran Raine for motivating this
  ([issue #405](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/405)).

- Make it easier to set JS loading baseUrl by moving it into the initial dojo
  configuration. Thanks to Jillian Rowe for pointing out the need for this.

- Enhanced new text-based config syntax to support arrays of values in a list
  like:

      [trackMetadata]
      sources =
        + data/mymeta.csv
        + data/more_meta.csv

## Bug fixes

- When a number is typed into the location box, JBrowse first checks if it is
  the name of a feature in the names index, and only interprets it as a
  coordinate if it is not found in the names index. Thanks to Richard Hayes for
  pointing this out ([issue #407](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/407)).

- Fixed bug that caused client-side GFF3 tracks to appear as "Loading" forever
  if the GFF3 is malformed (like malformed GFF3 files that are opened with the
  File->Open tool).

- Fixed bug in which no default value for `maxFeatureSizeForUnderlyingRefSeq`
  was being set, which made default feature detail popups try to fetch and
  display a feature's underlying reference sequence even if it is way too large,
  unless the variable was set explicitly in the configuration.

- JBrowse now shows a more understandable error message when trying to open an
  uncompressed BAM file. Thanks to Keiran Raine for pointing this out
  ([issue #404](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/404)).

- Fixed jbrowse.conf faceted track selector configuration examples not working
  as written. Thanks to Cris Lawrence for pointing this out.

- Fixed a bug in which right-clicking on feature labels in an HTMLFeatures-based
  track did not bring up the right-click menu for a feature. Thanks to Cris
  Lawrence for pointing this out
  ([issue #408](https://github.com/gmod/jbrowse/issues/408)).
